---
published: true
layout: post
author: Alice
title: "England is Strange"
categories: history
future: 2106-06-01
date: 2016-06-01
active: "reports"
---
England had been just a blur as I rushed to the edge-of-London office where ArciTech was imprisoned. But on my way back, trying to look confident and normal wheeling her box behind me, I took my time to look around. I realized something: England was strange.


There were the things I expected: the iconic red gondola trains, the accents, Big Ben. It was like walking through a film set I’d seen so many times.
 
But then there were the things that were like home, but shifted. Take the billboards. I walked past the Museum of Most-Contemporary Art, where a poster Überbot’s new film was hanging on the façade. Instead of writing the movie’s name — Sealed with Revenge — these ads said Sealed with Revolution and Überbot wasn’t looking nobly into the distance, he was staring at you.
 
They’d changed the tagline too.  Not “He’s gone postal” but just “Go postal.”
 
I sat down at the gondola stop to wait for my ride to the airport. And I waited. And waited. A bunch of streets were closed and some gondola lines seemed down. Come to think of it, there was a ton of road repair going on in London. I guess that’s why ArciTech’s construction worker owners located their office here. Still. As I mentally prepared to spend the rest of my life languishing on this sidewalk corner, I watched a team of repair bots working across the street. The one closest to me had steamroller arms, and, after a few minutes, I realized he was just going back and forth over the same, impeccable looking three-foot stretch. They weren't actually fixing anything!
 
I turned to the box I’d been wheeling and the calm face visible through the cover window, and I thought I had my answer. ArciTech, you sly magician. You caused this.
 
I couldn't wait to see what she was like when she woke up. Why wait? I opened the box and flipped the switch to bring her back to life. 
